<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
    <title>PART 1</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
      <h2 id="f003">PART 1</h2>
      <p>
      <span id="f004">I heartily accept the motto,—“That government is best which governs least;” and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. </span>
      <span id="f005">Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe—“That government is best which governs not at all;” and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have. </span>
      <span id="f006">Government is at best but an expedient; but most governments are usually, and all governments are sometimes, inexpedient. </span>
      <span id="f007">The objections which have been brought against a standing army, and they are many and weighty, and deserve to prevail, may also at last be brought against a standing government. </span>
      <span id="f008">The standing army is only an arm of the standing government. </span>
      <span id="f009">The government itself, which is only the mode which the people have chosen to execute their will, is equally liable to be abused and perverted before the people can act through it. </span>
      <span id="f010">Witness the present Mexican war, the work of comparatively a few individuals using the standing government as their tool; for, in the outset, the people would not have consented to this measure.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f011">This American government,—what is it but a tradition, though a recent one, endeavoring to transmit itself unimpaired to posterity, but each instant losing some of its integrity? </span>
      <span id="f012">It has not the vitality and force of a single living man; for a single man can bend it to his will. </span>
      <span id="f013">It is a sort of wooden gun to the people themselves; and, if ever they should use it in earnest as a real one against each other, it will surely split. </span>
      <span id="f014">But it is not the less necessary for this; for the people must have some complicated machinery or other, and hear its din, to satisfy that idea of government which they have. </span>
      <span id="f015">Governments show thus how successfully men can be imposed on, even impose on themselves, for their own advantage. </span>
      <span id="f016">It is excellent, we must all allow; yet this government never of itself furthered any enterprise, but by the alacrity with which it got out of its way. </span>
      <span id="f017">_It_ does not keep the country free. </span>
      <span id="f018">_It_ does not settle the West. </span>
      <span id="f019">_It_ does not educate. </span>
      <span id="f020">The character inherent in the American people has done all that has been accomplished; and it would have done somewhat more, if the government had not sometimes got in its way. </span>
      <span id="f021">For government is an expedient, by which men would fain succeed in letting one another alone; and, as has been said, when it is most expedient, the governed are most let alone by it. </span>
      <span id="f022">Trade and commerce, if they were not made of India rubber, would never manage to bounce over obstacles which legislators are continually putting in their way; and, if one were to judge these men wholly by the effects of their actions, and not partly by their intentions, they would deserve to be classed and punished with those mischievous persons who put obstructions on the railroads.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f023">But, to speak practically and as a citizen, unlike those who call themselves no-government men, I ask for, not at once no government, but _at once_ a better government. </span>
      <span id="f024">Let every man make known what kind of government would command his respect, and that will be one step toward obtaining it.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f025">After all, the practical reason why, when the power is once in the hands of the people, a majority are permitted, and for a long period continue, to rule, is not because they are most likely to be in the right, nor because this seems fairest to the minority, but because they are physically the strongest. </span>
      <span id="f026">But a government in which the majority rule in all cases can not be based on justice, even as far as men understand it. </span>
      <span id="f027">Can there not be a government in which the majorities do not virtually decide right and wrong, but conscience?—in which majorities decide only those questions to which the rule of expediency is applicable? </span>
      <span id="f028">Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience to the legislator? </span>
      <span id="f029">Why has every man a conscience, then? </span>
      <span id="f030">I think that we should be men first, and subjects afterward. </span>
      <span id="f031">It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right. </span>
      <span id="f032">The only obligation which I have a right to assume, is to do at any time what I think right. </span>
      <span id="f033">It is truly enough said that a corporation has no conscience; but a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation _with_ a conscience. </span>
      <span id="f034">Law never made men a whit more just; and, by means of their respect for it, even the well-disposed are daily made the agents of injustice. </span>
      <span id="f035">A common and natural result of an undue respect for the law is, that you may see a file of soldiers, colonel, captain, corporal, privates, powder-monkeys and all, marching in admirable order over hill and dale to the wars, against their wills, aye, against their common sense and consciences, which makes it very steep marching indeed, and produces a palpitation of the heart. </span>
      <span id="f036">They have no doubt that it is a damnable business in which they are concerned; they are all peaceably inclined. </span>
      <span id="f037">Now, what are they? </span>
      <span id="f038">Men at all? </span>
      <span id="f039">or small movable forts and magazines, at the service of some unscrupulous man in power? </span>
      <span id="f040">Visit the Navy Yard, and behold a marine, such a man as an American government can make, or such as it can make a man with its black arts, a mere shadow and reminiscence of humanity, a man laid out alive and standing, and already, as one may say, buried under arms with funeral accompaniment, though it may be</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f041">“Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note,     As his corpse to the ramparts we hurried;   Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot     O’er the grave where our hero we buried.”</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f042">The mass of men serve the State thus, not as men mainly, but as machines, with their bodies. </span>
      <span id="f043">They are the standing army, and the militia, jailers, constables, _posse comitatus_, &amp;c. </span>
      <span id="f044">In most cases there is no free exercise whatever of the judgment or of the moral sense; but they put themselves on a level with wood and earth and stones; and wooden men can perhaps be manufactured that will serve the purpose as well. </span>
      <span id="f045">Such command no more respect than men of straw, or a lump of dirt. </span>
      <span id="f046">They have the same sort of worth only as horses and dogs. </span>
      <span id="f047">Yet such as these even are commonly esteemed good citizens. </span>
      <span id="f048">Others, as most legislators, politicians, lawyers, ministers, and office-holders, serve the state chiefly with their heads; and, as they rarely make any moral distinctions, they are as likely to serve the devil, without _intending_ it, as God. </span>
      <span id="f049">A very few, as heroes, patriots, martyrs, reformers in the great sense, and _men_, serve the State with their consciences also, and so necessarily resist it for the most part; and they are commonly treated by it as enemies. </span>
      <span id="f050">A wise man will only be useful as a man, and will not submit to be “clay,” and “stop a hole to keep the wind away,” but leave that office to his dust at least:</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f051">“I am too high-born to be propertied,   To be a secondary at control,   Or useful serving-man and instrument   To any sovereign state throughout the world.”</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f052">He who gives himself entirely to his fellow-men appears to them useless and selfish; but he who gives himself partially to them is pronounced a benefactor and philanthropist.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f053">How does it become a man to behave toward the American government today? </span>
      <span id="f054">I answer that he cannot without disgrace be associated with it. </span>
      <span id="f055">I cannot for an instant recognize that political organization as _my_ government which is the _slave’s_ government also.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f056">All men recognize the right of revolution; that is, the right to refuse allegiance to and to resist the government, when its tyranny or its inefficiency are great and unendurable. </span>
      <span id="f057">But almost all say that such is not the case now. </span>
      <span id="f058">But such was the case, they think, in the Revolution of ’75. </span>
      <span id="f059">If one were to tell me that this was a bad government because it taxed certain foreign commodities brought to its ports, it is most probable that I should not make an ado about it, for I can do without them: all machines have their friction; and possibly this does enough good to counter-balance the evil. </span>
      <span id="f060">At any rate, it is a great evil to make a stir about it. </span>
      <span id="f061">But when the friction comes to have its machine, and oppression and robbery are organized, I say, let us not have such a machine any longer. </span>
      <span id="f062">In other words, when a sixth of the population of a nation which has undertaken to be the refuge of liberty are slaves, and a whole country is unjustly overrun and conquered by a foreign army, and subjected to military law, I think that it is not too soon for honest men to rebel and revolutionize. </span>
      <span id="f063">What makes this duty the more urgent is that fact, that the country so overrun is not our own, but ours is the invading army.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f064">Paley, a common authority with many on moral questions, in his chapter on the “Duty of Submission to Civil Government,” resolves all civil obligation into expediency; and he proceeds to say, “that so long as the interest of the whole society requires it, that is, so long as the established government cannot be resisted or changed without public inconveniency, it is the will of God that the established government be obeyed, and no longer.”—“This principle being admitted, the justice of every particular case of resistance is reduced to a computation of the quantity of the danger and grievance on the one side, and of the probability and expense of redressing it on the other.” Of this, he says, every man shall judge for himself. </span>
      <span id="f065">But Paley appears never to have contemplated those cases to which the rule of expediency does not apply, in which a people, as well as an individual, must do justice, cost what it may. </span>
      <span id="f066">If I have unjustly wrested a plank from a drowning man, I must restore it to him though I drown myself. </span>
      <span id="f067">This, according to Paley, would be inconvenient. </span>
      <span id="f068">But he that would save his life, in such a case, shall lose it. </span>
      <span id="f069">This people must cease to hold slaves, and to make war on Mexico, though it cost them their existence as a people.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f070">In their practice, nations agree with Paley; but does anyone think that Massachusetts does exactly what is right at the present crisis?</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f071">“A drab of state, a cloth-o’-silver slut,   To have her train borne up, and her soul trail in the dirt.”</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f072">Practically speaking, the opponents to a reform in Massachusetts are not a hundred thousand politicians at the South, but a hundred thousand merchants and farmers here, who are more interested in commerce and agriculture than they are in humanity, and are not prepared to do justice to the slave and to Mexico, _cost what it may_. </span>
      <span id="f073">I quarrel not with far-off foes, but with those who, near at home, co-operate with, and do the bidding of those far away, and without whom the latter would be harmless. </span>
      <span id="f074">We are accustomed to say, that the mass of men are unprepared; but improvement is slow, because the few are not materially wiser or better than the many. </span>
      <span id="f075">It is not so important that many should be as good as you, as that there be some absolute goodness somewhere; for that will leaven the whole lump. </span>
      <span id="f076">There are thousands who are _in opinion_ opposed to slavery and to the war, who yet in effect do nothing to put an end to them; who, esteeming themselves children of Washington and Franklin, sit down with their hands in their pockets, and say that they know not what to do, and do nothing; who even postpone the question of freedom to the question of free-trade, and quietly read the prices-current along with the latest advices from Mexico, after dinner, and, it may be, fall asleep over them both. </span>
      <span id="f077">What is the price-current of an honest man and patriot today? </span>
      <span id="f078">They hesitate, and they regret, and sometimes they petition; but they do nothing in earnest and with effect. </span>
      <span id="f079">They will wait, well disposed, for others to remedy the evil, that they may no longer have it to regret. </span>
      <span id="f080">At most, they give only a cheap vote, and a feeble countenance and Godspeed, to the right, as it goes by them. </span>
      <span id="f081">There are nine hundred and ninety-nine patrons of virtue to one virtuous man; but it is easier to deal with the real possessor of a thing than with the temporary guardian of it.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f082">All voting is a sort of gaming, like chequers or backgammon, with a slight moral tinge to it, a playing with right and wrong, with moral questions; and betting naturally accompanies it. </span>
      <span id="f083">The character of the voters is not staked. </span>
      <span id="f084">I cast my vote, perchance, as I think right; but I am not vitally concerned that that right should prevail. </span>
      <span id="f085">I am willing to leave it to the majority. </span>
      <span id="f086">Its obligation, therefore, never exceeds that of expediency. </span>
      <span id="f087">Even voting _for the right_ is _doing_ nothing for it. </span>
      <span id="f088">It is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail. </span>
      <span id="f089">A wise man will not leave the right to the mercy of chance, nor wish it to prevail through the power of the majority. </span>
      <span id="f090">There is but little virtue in the action of masses of men. </span>
      <span id="f091">When the majority shall at length vote for the abolition of slavery, it will be because they are indifferent to slavery, or because there is but little slavery left to be abolished by their vote. </span>
      <span id="f092">_They_ will then be the only slaves. </span>
      <span id="f093">Only _his_ vote can hasten the abolition of slavery who asserts his own freedom by his vote.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f094">I hear of a convention to be held at Baltimore, or elsewhere, for the selection of a candidate for the Presidency, made up chiefly of editors, and men who are politicians by profession; but I think, what is it to any independent, intelligent, and respectable man what decision they may come to, shall we not have the advantage of his wisdom and honesty, nevertheless? </span>
      <span id="f095">Can we not count upon some independent votes? </span>
      <span id="f096">Are there not many individuals in the country who do not attend conventions? </span>
      <span id="f097">But no: I find that the respectable man, so called, has immediately drifted from his position, and despairs of his country, when his country has more reasons to despair of him. </span>
      <span id="f098">He forthwith adopts one of the candidates thus selected as the only _available_ one, thus proving that he is himself _available_ for any purposes of the demagogue. </span>
      <span id="f099">His vote is of no more worth than that of any unprincipled foreigner or hireling native, who may have been bought. </span>
      <span id="f100">Oh for a man who is a _man_, and, as my neighbor says, has a bone in his back which you cannot pass your hand through! </span>
      <span id="f101">Our statistics are at fault: the population has been returned too large. </span>
      <span id="f102">How many _men_ are there to a square thousand miles in the country? </span>
      <span id="f103">Hardly one. </span>
      <span id="f104">Does not America offer any inducement for men to settle here? </span>
      <span id="f105">The American has dwindled into an Odd Fellow,—one who may be known by the development of his organ of gregariousness, and a manifest lack of intellect and cheerful self-reliance; whose first and chief concern, on coming into the world, is to see that the alms-houses are in good repair; and, before yet he has lawfully donned the virile garb, to collect a fund for the support of the widows and orphans that may be; who, in short, ventures to live only by the aid of the Mutual Insurance company, which has promised to bury him decently.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f106">It is not a man’s duty, as a matter of course, to devote himself to the eradication of any, even the most enormous wrong; he may still properly have other concerns to engage him; but it is his duty, at least, to wash his hands of it, and, if he gives it no thought longer, not to give it practically his support. </span>
      <span id="f107">If I devote myself to other pursuits and contemplations, I must first see, at least, that I do not pursue them sitting upon another man’s shoulders. </span>
      <span id="f108">I must get off him first, that he may pursue his contemplations too. </span>
      <span id="f109">See what gross inconsistency is tolerated. </span>
      <span id="f110">I have heard some of my townsmen say, “I should like to have them order me out to help put down an insurrection of the slaves, or to march to Mexico,—see if I would go;” and yet these very men have each, directly by their allegiance, and so indirectly, at least, by their money, furnished a substitute. </span>
      <span id="f111">The soldier is applauded who refuses to serve in an unjust war by those who do not refuse to sustain the unjust government which makes the war; is applauded by those whose own act and authority he disregards and sets at naught; as if the State were penitent to that degree that it hired one to scourge it while it sinned, but not to that degree that it left off sinning for a moment. </span>
      <span id="f112">Thus, under the name of Order and Civil Government, we are all made at last to pay homage to and support our own meanness. </span>
      <span id="f113">After the first blush of sin, comes its indifference; and from immoral it becomes, as it were, _un_moral, and not quite unnecessary to that life which we have made.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f114">The broadest and most prevalent error requires the most disinterested virtue to sustain it. </span>
      <span id="f115">The slight reproach to which the virtue of patriotism is commonly liable, the noble are most likely to incur. </span>
      <span id="f116">Those who, while they disapprove of the character and measures of a government, yield to it their allegiance and support, are undoubtedly its most conscientious supporters, and so frequently the most serious obstacles to reform. </span>
      <span id="f117">Some are petitioning the State to dissolve the Union, to disregard the requisitions of the President. </span>
      <span id="f118">Why do they not dissolve it themselves,—the union between themselves and the State,—and refuse to pay their quota into its treasury? </span>
      <span id="f119">Do not they stand in same relation to the State, that the State does to the Union? </span>
      <span id="f120">And have not the same reasons prevented the State from resisting the Union, which have prevented them from resisting the State?</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f121">How can a man be satisfied to entertain an opinion merely, and enjoy _it?_ Is there any enjoyment in it, if his opinion is that he is aggrieved? </span>
      <span id="f122">If you are cheated out of a single dollar by your neighbor, you do not rest satisfied with knowing you are cheated, or with saying that you are cheated, or even with petitioning him to pay you your due; but you take effectual steps at once to obtain the full amount, and see that you are never cheated again. </span>
      <span id="f123">Action from principle,—the perception and the performance of right,—changes things and relations; it is essentially revolutionary, and does not consist wholly with anything which was. </span>
      <span id="f124">It not only divided states and churches, it divides families; aye, it divides the _individual_, separating the diabolical in him from the divine.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f125">Unjust laws exist: shall we be content to obey them, or shall we endeavor to amend them, and obey them until we have succeeded, or shall we transgress them at once? </span>
      <span id="f126">Men generally, under such a government as this, think that they ought to wait until they have persuaded the majority to alter them. </span>
      <span id="f127">They think that, if they should resist, the remedy would be worse than the evil. </span>
      <span id="f128">But it is the fault of the government itself that the remedy _is_ worse than the evil. </span>
      <span id="f129">_It_ makes it worse. </span>
      <span id="f130">Why is it not more apt to anticipate and provide for reform? </span>
      <span id="f131">Why does it not cherish its wise minority? </span>
      <span id="f132">Why does it cry and resist before it is hurt? </span>
      <span id="f133">Why does it not encourage its citizens to be on the alert to point out its faults, and _do_ better than it would have them? </span>
      <span id="f134">Why does it always crucify Christ, and excommunicate Copernicus and Luther, and pronounce Washington and Franklin rebels?</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f135">One would think, that a deliberate and practical denial of its authority was the only offence never contemplated by government; else, why has it not assigned its definite, its suitable and proportionate penalty? </span>
      <span id="f136">If a man who has no property refuses but once to earn nine shillings for the State, he is put in prison for a period unlimited by any law that I know, and determined only by the discretion of those who placed him there; but if he should steal ninety times nine shillings from the State, he is soon permitted to go at large again.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f137">If the injustice is part of the necessary friction of the machine of government, let it go, let it go: perchance it will wear smooth,—certainly the machine will wear out. </span>
      <span id="f138">If the injustice has a spring, or a pulley, or a rope, or a crank, exclusively for itself, then perhaps you may consider whether the remedy will not be worse than the evil; but if it is of such a nature that it requires you to be the agent of injustice to another, then, I say, break the law. </span>
      <span id="f139">Let your life be a counter friction to stop the machine. </span>
      <span id="f140">What I have to do is to see, at any rate, that I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f141">As for adopting the ways which the State has provided for remedying the evil, I know not of such ways. </span>
      <span id="f142">They take too much time, and a man’s life will be gone. </span>
      <span id="f143">I have other affairs to attend to. </span>
      <span id="f144">I came into this world, not chiefly to make this a good place to live in, but to live in it, be it good or bad. </span>
      <span id="f145">A man has not every thing to do, but something; and because he cannot do _every thing_, it is not necessary that he should do _something_ wrong. </span>
      <span id="f146">It is not my business to be petitioning the Governor or the Legislature any more than it is theirs to petition me; and, if they should not hear my petition, what should I do then? </span>
      <span id="f147">But in this case the State has provided no way: its very Constitution is the evil. </span>
      <span id="f148">This may seem to be harsh and stubborn and unconcilliatory; but it is to treat with the utmost kindness and consideration the only spirit that can appreciate or deserves it. </span>
      <span id="f149">So is all change for the better, like birth and death which convulse the body.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f150">I do not hesitate to say, that those who call themselves abolitionists should at once effectually withdraw their support, both in person and property, from the government of Massachusetts, and not wait till they constitute a majority of one, before they suffer the right to prevail through them. </span>
      <span id="f151">I think that it is enough if they have God on their side, without waiting for that other one. </span>
      <span id="f152">Moreover, any man more right than his neighbors constitutes a majority of one already.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f153">I meet this American government, or its representative, the State government, directly, and face to face, once a year, no more, in the person of its tax-gatherer; this is the only mode in which a man situated as I am necessarily meets it; and it then says distinctly, Recognize me; and the simplest, the most effectual, and, in the present posture of affairs, the indispensablest mode of treating with it on this head, of expressing your little satisfaction with and love for it, is to deny it then. </span>
      <span id="f154">My civil neighbor, the tax-gatherer, is the very man I have to deal with,—for it is, after all, with men and not with parchment that I quarrel,—and he has voluntarily chosen to be an agent of the government. </span>
      <span id="f155">How shall he ever know well what he is and does as an officer of the government, or as a man, until he is obliged to consider whether he shall treat me, his neighbor, for whom he has respect, as a neighbor and well-disposed man, or as a maniac and disturber of the peace, and see if he can get over this obstruction to his neighborliness without a ruder and more impetuous thought or speech corresponding with his action? </span>
      <span id="f156">I know this well, that if one thousand, if one hundred, if ten men whom I could name,—if ten _honest_ men only,—aye, if _one_ HONEST man, in this State of Massachusetts, _ceasing to hold slaves_, were actually to withdraw from this copartnership, and be locked up in the county jail therefor, it would be the abolition of slavery in America. </span>
      <span id="f157">For it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be: what is once well done is done for ever. </span>
      <span id="f158">But we love better to talk about it: that we say is our mission. </span>
      <span id="f159">Reform keeps many scores of newspapers in its service, but not one man. </span>
      <span id="f160">If my esteemed neighbor, the State’s ambassador, who will devote his days to the settlement of the question of human rights in the Council Chamber, instead of being threatened with the prisons of Carolina, were to sit down the prisoner of Massachusetts, that State which is so anxious to foist the sin of slavery upon her sister,—though at present she can discover only an act of inhospitality to be the ground of a quarrel with her,—the Legislature would not wholly waive the subject of the following winter.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f161">Under a government which imprisons any unjustly, the true place for a just man is also a prison. </span>
      <span id="f162">The proper place today, the only place which Massachusetts has provided for her freer and less desponding spirits, is in her prisons, to be put out and locked out of the State by her own act, as they have already put themselves out by their principles. </span>
      <span id="f163">It is there that the fugitive slave, and the Mexican prisoner on parole, and the Indian come to plead the wrongs of his race, should find them; on that separate, but more free and honorable ground, where the State places those who are not _with_ her but _against_ her,—the only house in a slave-state in which a free man can abide with honor. </span>
      <span id="f164">If any think that their influence would be lost there, and their voices no longer afflict the ear of the State, that they would not be as an enemy within its walls, they do not know by how much truth is stronger than error, nor how much more eloquently and effectively he can combat injustice who has experienced a little in his own person. </span>
      <span id="f165">Cast your whole vote, not a strip of paper merely, but your whole influence. </span>
      <span id="f166">A minority is powerless while it conforms to the majority; it is not even a minority then; but it is irresistible when it clogs by its whole weight. </span>
      <span id="f167">If the alternative is to keep all just men in prison, or give up war and slavery, the State will not hesitate which to choose. </span>
      <span id="f168">If a thousand men were not to pay their tax-bills this year, that would not be a violent and bloody measure, as it would be to pay them, and enable the State to commit violence and shed innocent blood. </span>
      <span id="f169">This is, in fact, the definition of a peaceable revolution, if any such is possible. </span>
      <span id="f170">If the tax-gatherer, or any other public officer, asks me, as one has done, “But what shall I do?” my answer is, “If you really wish to do any thing, resign your office.” When the subject has refused allegiance, and the officer has resigned his office, then the revolution is accomplished. </span>
      <span id="f171">But even suppose blood should flow. </span>
      <span id="f172">Is there not a sort of blood shed when the conscience is wounded? </span>
      <span id="f173">Through this wound a man’s real manhood and immortality flow out, and he bleeds to an everlasting death. </span>
      <span id="f174">I see this blood flowing now.</span>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>