<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
    <title>PART 2</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
      <h2 id="f175">PART 2</h2>
      <p>
      <span id="f176">I have contemplated the imprisonment of the offender, rather than the seizure of his goods,—though both will serve the same purpose,—because they who assert the purest right, and consequently are most dangerous to a corrupt State, commonly have not spent much time in accumulating property. </span>
      <span id="f177">To such the State renders comparatively small service, and a slight tax is wont to appear exorbitant, particularly if they are obliged to earn it by special labor with their hands. </span>
      <span id="f178">If there were one who lived wholly without the use of money, the State itself would hesitate to demand it of him. </span>
      <span id="f179">But the rich man—not to make any invidious comparison—is always sold to the institution which makes him rich. </span>
      <span id="f180">Absolutely speaking, the more money, the less virtue; for money comes between a man and his objects, and obtains them for him; it was certainly no great virtue to obtain it. </span>
      <span id="f181">It puts to rest many questions which he would otherwise be taxed to answer; while the only new question which it puts is the hard but superfluous one, how to spend it. </span>
      <span id="f182">Thus his moral ground is taken from under his feet. </span>
      <span id="f183">The opportunities of living are diminished in proportion as what are called the “means” are increased. </span>
      <span id="f184">The best thing a man can do for his culture when he is rich is to endeavor to carry out those schemes which he entertained when he was poor. </span>
      <span id="f185">Christ answered the Herodians according to their condition. </span>
      <span id="f186">“Show me the tribute-money,” said he;—and one took a penny out of his pocket;—if you use money which has the image of Cæsar on it, and which he has made current and valuable, that is, _if you are men of the State_, and gladly enjoy the advantages of Cæsar’s government, then pay him back some of his own when he demands it; “Render therefore to Cæsar that which is Cæsar’s and to God those things which are God’s,”—leaving them no wiser than before as to which was which; for they did not wish to know.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f187">When I converse with the freest of my neighbors, I perceive that, whatever they may say about the magnitude and seriousness of the question, and their regard for the public tranquillity, the long and the short of the matter is, that they cannot spare the protection of the existing government, and they dread the consequences of disobedience to it to their property and families. </span>
      <span id="f188">For my own part, I should not like to think that I ever rely on the protection of the State. </span>
      <span id="f189">But, if I deny the authority of the State when it presents its tax-bill, it will soon take and waste all my property, and so harass me and my children without end. </span>
      <span id="f190">This is hard. </span>
      <span id="f191">This makes it impossible for a man to live honestly and at the same time comfortably in outward respects. </span>
      <span id="f192">It will not be worth the while to accumulate property; that would be sure to go again. </span>
      <span id="f193">You must hire or squat somewhere, and raise but a small crop, and eat that soon. </span>
      <span id="f194">You must live within yourself, and depend upon yourself, always tucked up and ready for a start, and not have many affairs. </span>
      <span id="f195">A man may grow rich in Turkey even, if he will be in all respects a good subject of the Turkish government. </span>
      <span id="f196">Confucius said,—“If a State is governed by the principles of reason, poverty and misery are subjects of shame; if a State is not governed by the principles of reason, riches and honors are the subjects of shame.” No: until I want the protection of Massachusetts to be extended to me in some distant southern port, where my liberty is endangered, or until I am bent solely on building up an estate at home by peaceful enterprise, I can afford to refuse allegiance to Massachusetts, and her right to my property and life. </span>
      <span id="f197">It costs me less in every sense to incur the penalty of disobedience to the State, than it would to obey. </span>
      <span id="f198">I should feel as if I were worth less in that case.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f199">Some years ago, the State met me in behalf of the church, and commanded me to pay a certain sum toward the support of a clergyman whose preaching my father attended, but never I myself. </span>
      <span id="f200">“Pay it,” it said, “or be locked up in the jail.” I declined to pay. </span>
      <span id="f201">But, unfortunately, another man saw fit to pay it. </span>
      <span id="f202">I did not see why the schoolmaster should be taxed to support the priest, and not the priest the schoolmaster; for I was not the State’s schoolmaster, but I supported myself by voluntary subscription. </span>
      <span id="f203">I did not see why the lyceum should not present its tax-bill, and have the State to back its demand, as well as the church. </span>
      <span id="f204">However, at the request of the selectmen, I condescended to make some such statement as this in writing:—“Know all men by these presents, that I, Henry Thoreau, do not wish to be regarded as a member of any incorporated society which I have not joined.” This I gave to the town-clerk; and he has it. </span>
      <span id="f205">The State, having thus learned that I did not wish to be regarded as a member of that church, has never made a like demand on me since; though it said that it must adhere to its original presumption that time. </span>
      <span id="f206">If I had known how to name them, I should then have signed off in detail from all the societies which I never signed on to; but I did not know where to find such a complete list.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f207">I have paid no poll-tax for six years. </span>
      <span id="f208">I was put into a jail once on this account, for one night; and, as I stood considering the walls of solid stone, two or three feet thick, the door of wood and iron, a foot thick, and the iron grating which strained the light, I could not help being struck with the foolishness of that institution which treated me as if I were mere flesh and blood and bones, to be locked up. </span>
      <span id="f209">I wondered that it should have concluded at length that this was the best use it could put me to, and had never thought to avail itself of my services in some way. </span>
      <span id="f210">I saw that, if there was a wall of stone between me and my townsmen, there was a still more difficult one to climb or break through, before they could get to be as free as I was. </span>
      <span id="f211">I did nor for a moment feel confined, and the walls seemed a great waste of stone and mortar. </span>
      <span id="f212">I felt as if I alone of all my townsmen had paid my tax. </span>
      <span id="f213">They plainly did not know how to treat me, but behaved like persons who are underbred. </span>
      <span id="f214">In every threat and in every compliment there was a blunder; for they thought that my chief desire was to stand the other side of that stone wall. </span>
      <span id="f215">I could not but smile to see how industriously they locked the door on my meditations, which followed them out again without let or hindrance, and _they_ were really all that was dangerous. </span>
      <span id="f216">As they could not reach me, they had resolved to punish my body; just as boys, if they cannot come at some person against whom they have a spite, will abuse his dog. </span>
      <span id="f217">I saw that the State was half-witted, that it was timid as a lone woman with her silver spoons, and that it did not know its friends from its foes, and I lost all my remaining respect for it, and pitied it.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f218">Thus the state never intentionally confronts a man’s sense, intellectual or moral, but only his body, his senses. </span>
      <span id="f219">It is not armed with superior wit or honesty, but with superior physical strength. </span>
      <span id="f220">I was not born to be forced. </span>
      <span id="f221">I will breathe after my own fashion. </span>
      <span id="f222">Let us see who is the strongest. </span>
      <span id="f223">What force has a multitude? </span>
      <span id="f224">They only can force me who obey a higher law than I. </span>
      <span id="f225">They force me to become like themselves. </span>
      <span id="f226">I do not hear of _men_ being _forced_ to live this way or that by masses of men. </span>
      <span id="f227">What sort of life were that to live? </span>
      <span id="f228">When I meet a government which says to me, “Your money or your life,” why should I be in haste to give it my money? </span>
      <span id="f229">It may be in a great strait, and not know what to do: I cannot help that. </span>
      <span id="f230">It must help itself; do as I do. </span>
      <span id="f231">It is not worth the while to snivel about it. </span>
      <span id="f232">I am not responsible for the successful working of the machinery of society. </span>
      <span id="f233">I am not the son of the engineer. </span>
      <span id="f234">I perceive that, when an acorn and a chestnut fall side by side, the one does not remain inert to make way for the other, but both obey their own laws, and spring and grow and flourish as best they can, till one, perchance, overshadows and destroys the other. </span>
      <span id="f235">If a plant cannot live according to its nature, it dies; and so a man.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f236">The night in prison was novel and interesting enough. </span>
      <span id="f237">The prisoners in their shirt-sleeves were enjoying a chat and the evening air in the door-way, when I entered. </span>
      <span id="f238">But the jailer said, “Come, boys, it is time to lock up;” and so they dispersed, and I heard the sound of their steps returning into the hollow apartments. </span>
      <span id="f239">My room-mate was introduced to me by the jailer as “a first-rate fellow and a clever man.” When the door was locked, he showed me where to hang my hat, and how he managed matters there. </span>
      <span id="f240">The rooms were whitewashed once a month; and this one, at least, was the whitest, most simply furnished, and probably the neatest apartment in town. </span>
      <span id="f241">He naturally wanted to know where I came from, and what brought me there; and, when I had told him, I asked him in my turn how he came there, presuming him to be an honest man, of course; and, as the world goes, I believe he was. </span>
      <span id="f242">“Why,” said he, “they accuse me of burning a barn; but I never did it.” As near as I could discover, he had probably gone to bed in a barn when drunk, and smoked his pipe there; and so a barn was burnt. </span>
      <span id="f243">He had the reputation of being a clever man, had been there some three months waiting for his trial to come on, and would have to wait as much longer; but he was quite domesticated and contented, since he got his board for nothing, and thought that he was well treated.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f244">He occupied one window, and I the other; and I saw, that, if one stayed there long, his principal business would be to look out the window. </span>
      <span id="f245">I had soon read all the tracts that were left there, and examined where former prisoners had broken out, and where a grate had been sawed off, and heard the history of the various occupants of that room; for I found that even here there was a history and a gossip which never circulated beyond the walls of the jail. </span>
      <span id="f246">Probably this is the only house in the town where verses are composed, which are afterward printed in a circular form, but not published. </span>
      <span id="f247">I was shown quite a long list of verses which were composed by some young men who had been detected in an attempt to escape, who avenged themselves by singing them.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f248">I pumped my fellow-prisoner as dry as I could, for fear I should never see him again; but at length he showed me which was my bed, and left me to blow out the lamp.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f249">It was like travelling into a far country, such as I had never expected to behold, to lie there for one night. </span>
      <span id="f250">It seemed to me that I never had heard the town-clock strike before, nor the evening sounds of the village; for we slept with the windows open, which were inside the grating. </span>
      <span id="f251">It was to see my native village in the light of the Middle Ages, and our Concord was turned into a Rhine stream, and visions of knights and castles passed before me. </span>
      <span id="f252">They were the voices of old burghers that I heard in the streets. </span>
      <span id="f253">I was an involuntary spectator and auditor of whatever was done and said in the kitchen of the adjacent village-inn—a wholly new and rare experience to me. </span>
      <span id="f254">It was a closer view of my native town. </span>
      <span id="f255">I was fairly inside of it. </span>
      <span id="f256">I never had seen its institutions before. </span>
      <span id="f257">This is one of its peculiar institutions; for it is a shire town. </span>
      <span id="f258">I began to comprehend what its inhabitants were about.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f259">In the morning, our breakfasts were put through the hole in the door, in small oblong-square tin pans, made to fit, and holding a pint of chocolate, with brown bread, and an iron spoon. </span>
      <span id="f260">When they called for the vessels again, I was green enough to return what bread I had left; but my comrade seized it, and said that I should lay that up for lunch or dinner. </span>
      <span id="f261">Soon after, he was let out to work at haying in a neighboring field, whither he went every day, and would not be back till noon; so he bade me good-day, saying that he doubted if he should see me again.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f262">When I came out of prison,—for some one interfered, and paid the tax,—I did not perceive that great changes had taken place on the common, such as he observed who went in a youth, and emerged a gray-headed man; and yet a change had to my eyes come over the scene,—the town, and State, and country,—greater than any that mere time could effect. </span>
      <span id="f263">I saw yet more distinctly the State in which I lived. </span>
      <span id="f264">I saw to what extent the people among whom I lived could be trusted as good neighbors and friends; that their friendship was for summer weather only; that they did not greatly purpose to do right; that they were a distinct race from me by their prejudices and superstitions, as the Chinamen and Malays are; that, in their sacrifices to humanity they ran no risks, not even to their property; that, after all, they were not so noble but they treated the thief as he had treated them, and hoped, by a certain outward observance and a few prayers, and by walking in a particular straight though useless path from time to time, to save their souls. </span>
      <span id="f265">This may be to judge my neighbors harshly; for I believe that most of them are not aware that they have such an institution as the jail in their village.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f266">It was formerly the custom in our village, when a poor debtor came out of jail, for his acquaintances to salute him, looking through their fingers, which were crossed to represent the grating of a jail window, “How do ye do?” My neighbors did not thus salute me, but first looked at me, and then at one another, as if I had returned from a long journey. </span>
      <span id="f267">I was put into jail as I was going to the shoemaker’s to get a shoe which was mended. </span>
      <span id="f268">When I was let out the next morning, I proceeded to finish my errand, and, having put on my mended shoe, joined a huckleberry party, who were impatient to put themselves under my conduct; and in half an hour,—for the horse was soon tackled,—was in the midst of a huckleberry field, on one of our highest hills, two miles off; and then the State was nowhere to be seen.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f269">This is the whole history of “My Prisons.”</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f270">I have never declined paying the highway tax, because I am as desirous of being a good neighbor as I am of being a bad subject; and, as for supporting schools, I am doing my part to educate my fellow-countrymen now. </span>
      <span id="f271">It is for no particular item in the tax-bill that I refuse to pay it. </span>
      <span id="f272">I simply wish to refuse allegiance to the State, to withdraw and stand aloof from it effectually. </span>
      <span id="f273">I do not care to trace the course of my dollar, if I could, till it buys a man, or a musket to shoot one with,—the dollar is innocent,—but I am concerned to trace the effects of my allegiance. </span>
      <span id="f274">In fact, I quietly declare war with the State, after my fashion, though I will still make use and get what advantages of her I can, as is usual in such cases.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f275">If others pay the tax which is demanded of me, from a sympathy with the State, they do but what they have already done in their own case, or rather they abet injustice to a greater extent than the State requires. </span>
      <span id="f276">If they pay the tax from a mistaken interest in the individual taxed, to save his property or prevent his going to jail, it is because they have not considered wisely how far they let their private feelings interfere with the public good.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f277">This, then, is my position at present. </span>
      <span id="f278">But one cannot be too much on his guard in such a case, lest his actions be biassed by obstinacy, or an undue regard for the opinions of men. </span>
      <span id="f279">Let him see that he does only what belongs to himself and to the hour.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f280">I think sometimes, Why, this people mean well; they are only ignorant; they would do better if they knew how: why give your neighbors this pain to treat you as they are not inclined to? </span>
      <span id="f281">But I think, again, this is no reason why I should do as they do, or permit others to suffer much greater pain of a different kind. </span>
      <span id="f282">Again, I sometimes say to myself, When many millions of men, without heat, without ill-will, without personal feeling of any kind, demand of you a few shillings only, without the possibility, such is their constitution, of retracting or altering their present demand, and without the possibility, on your side, of appeal to any other millions, why expose yourself to this overwhelming brute force? </span>
      <span id="f283">You do not resist cold and hunger, the winds and the waves, thus obstinately; you quietly submit to a thousand similar necessities. </span>
      <span id="f284">You do not put your head into the fire. </span>
      <span id="f285">But just in proportion as I regard this as not wholly a brute force, but partly a human force, and consider that I have relations to those millions as to so many millions of men, and not of mere brute or inanimate things, I see that appeal is possible, first and instantaneously, from them to the Maker of them, and, secondly, from them to themselves. </span>
      <span id="f286">But, if I put my head deliberately into the fire, there is no appeal to fire or to the Maker of fire, and I have only myself to blame. </span>
      <span id="f287">If I could convince myself that I have any right to be satisfied with men as they are, and to treat them accordingly, and not according, in some respects, to my requisitions and expectations of what they and I ought to be, then, like a good Mussulman and fatalist, I should endeavor to be satisfied with things as they are, and say it is the will of God. </span>
      <span id="f288">And, above all, there is this difference between resisting this and a purely brute or natural force, that I can resist this with some effect; but I cannot expect, like Orpheus, to change the nature of the rocks and trees and beasts.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f289">I do not wish to quarrel with any man or nation. </span>
      <span id="f290">I do not wish to split hairs, to make fine distinctions, or set myself up as better than my neighbors. </span>
      <span id="f291">I seek rather, I may say, even an excuse for conforming to the laws of the land. </span>
      <span id="f292">I am but too ready to conform to them. </span>
      <span id="f293">Indeed I have reason to suspect myself on this head; and each year, as the tax-gatherer comes round, I find myself disposed to review the acts and position of the general and state governments, and the spirit of the people to discover a pretext for conformity.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f294">“We must affect our country as our parents,   And if at any time we alienate   Out love of industry from doing it honor,   We must respect effects and teach the soul   Matter of conscience and religion,   And not desire of rule or benefit.”</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f295">I believe that the State will soon be able to take all my work of this sort out of my hands, and then I shall be no better patriot than my fellow-countrymen. </span>
      <span id="f296">Seen from a lower point of view, the Constitution, with all its faults, is very good; the law and the courts are very respectable; even this State and this American government are, in many respects, very admirable, and rare things, to be thankful for, such as a great many have described them; seen from a higher still, and the highest, who shall say what they are, or that they are worth looking at or thinking of at all?</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f297">However, the government does not concern me much, and I shall bestow the fewest possible thoughts on it. </span>
      <span id="f298">It is not many moments that I live under a government, even in this world. </span>
      <span id="f299">If a man is thought-free, fancy-free, imagination-free, that which _is not_ never for a long time appearing _to be_ to him, unwise rulers or reformers cannot fatally interrupt him.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f300">I know that most men think differently from myself; but those whose lives are by profession devoted to the study of these or kindred subjects content me as little as any. </span>
      <span id="f301">Statesmen and legislators, standing so completely within the institution, never distinctly and nakedly behold it. </span>
      <span id="f302">They speak of moving society, but have no resting-place without it. </span>
      <span id="f303">They may be men of a certain experience and discrimination, and have no doubt invented ingenious and even useful systems, for which we sincerely thank them; but all their wit and usefulness lie within certain not very wide limits. </span>
      <span id="f304">They are wont to forget that the world is not governed by policy and expediency. </span>
      <span id="f305">Webster never goes behind government, and so cannot speak with authority about it. </span>
      <span id="f306">His words are wisdom to those legislators who contemplate no essential reform in the existing government; but for thinkers, and those who legislate for all time, he never once glances at the subject. </span>
      <span id="f307">I know of those whose serene and wise speculations on this theme would soon reveal the limits of his mind’s range and hospitality. </span>
      <span id="f308">Yet, compared with the cheap professions of most reformers, and the still cheaper wisdom and eloquence of politicians in general, his are almost the only sensible and valuable words, and we thank Heaven for him. </span>
      <span id="f309">Comparatively, he is always strong, original, and, above all, practical. </span>
      <span id="f310">Still his quality is not wisdom, but prudence. </span>
      <span id="f311">The lawyer’s truth is not Truth, but consistency or a consistent expediency. </span>
      <span id="f312">Truth is always in harmony with herself, and is not concerned chiefly to reveal the justice that may consist with wrong-doing. </span>
      <span id="f313">He well deserves to be called, as he has been called, the Defender of the Constitution. </span>
      <span id="f314">There are really no blows to be given by him but defensive ones. </span>
      <span id="f315">He is not a leader, but a follower. </span>
      <span id="f316">His leaders are the men of ’87. </span>
      <span id="f317">“I have never made an effort,” he says, “and never propose to make an effort; I have never countenanced an effort, and never mean to countenance an effort, to disturb the arrangement as originally made, by which the various States came into the Union.” Still thinking of the sanction which the Constitution gives to slavery, he says, “Because it was part of the original compact,—let it stand.” Notwithstanding his special acuteness and ability, he is unable to take a fact out of its merely political relations, and behold it as it lies absolutely to be disposed of by the intellect,—what, for instance, it behoves a man to do here in America today with regard to slavery, but ventures, or is driven, to make some such desperate answer as the following, while professing to speak absolutely, and as a private man,—from which what new and singular code of social duties might be inferred?—“The manner,” says he, “in which the governments of those States where slavery exists are to regulate it, is for their own consideration, under the responsibility to their constituents, to the general laws of propriety, humanity, and justice, and to God. </span>
      <span id="f318">Associations formed elsewhere, springing from a feeling of humanity, or any other cause, have nothing whatever to do with it. </span>
      <span id="f319">They have never received any encouragement from me and they never will.” [These extracts have been inserted since the Lecture was read —HDT]</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f320">They who know of no purer sources of truth, who have traced up its stream no higher, stand, and wisely stand, by the Bible and the Constitution, and drink at it there with reverence and humanity; but they who behold where it comes trickling into this lake or that pool, gird up their loins once more, and continue their pilgrimage toward its fountain-head.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f321">No man with a genius for legislation has appeared in America. </span>
      <span id="f322">They are rare in the history of the world. </span>
      <span id="f323">There are orators, politicians, and eloquent men, by the thousand; but the speaker has not yet opened his mouth to speak who is capable of settling the much-vexed questions of the day. </span>
      <span id="f324">We love eloquence for its own sake, and not for any truth which it may utter, or any heroism it may inspire. </span>
      <span id="f325">Our legislators have not yet learned the comparative value of free-trade and of freedom, of union, and of rectitude, to a nation. </span>
      <span id="f326">They have no genius or talent for comparatively humble questions of taxation and finance, commerce and manufactures and agriculture. </span>
      <span id="f327">If we were left solely to the wordy wit of legislators in Congress for our guidance, uncorrected by the seasonable experience and the effectual complaints of the people, America would not long retain her rank among the nations. </span>
      <span id="f328">For eighteen hundred years, though perchance I have no right to say it, the New Testament has been written; yet where is the legislator who has wisdom and practical talent enough to avail himself of the light which it sheds on the science of legislation.</span>
      </p>
      <p>
      <span id="f329">The authority of government, even such as I am willing to submit to,—for I will cheerfully obey those who know and can do better than I, and in many things even those who neither know nor can do so well,—is still an impure one: to be strictly just, it must have the sanction and consent of the governed. </span>
      <span id="f330">It can have no pure right over my person and property but what I concede to it. </span>
      <span id="f331">The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual. </span>
      <span id="f332">Even the Chinese philosopher was wise enough to regard the individual as the basis of the empire. </span>
      <span id="f333">Is a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible in government? </span>
      <span id="f334">Is it not possible to take a step further towards recognizing and organizing the rights of man? </span>
      <span id="f335">There will never be a really free and enlightened State, until the State comes to recognize the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its own power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly. </span>
      <span id="f336">I please myself with imagining a State at last which can afford to be just to all men, and to treat the individual with respect as a neighbor; which even would not think it inconsistent with its own repose, if a few were to live aloof from it, not meddling with it, nor embraced by it, who fulfilled all the duties of neighbors and fellow-men. </span>
      <span id="f337">A State which bore this kind of fruit, and suffered it to drop off as fast as it ripened, would prepare the way for a still more perfect and glorious State, which also I have imagined, but not yet anywhere seen.</span>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>